# MIT BSc in Computer Science and Engineering
This is a fully online, free curriculum from MIT OpenCourseWare that closely matches the actual [Bachelor's of Science in Computer Science and Engineering](http://catalog.mit.edu/degree-charts/computer-science-engineering-course-6-3/) offered in-person at MIT. You won’t be awarded a degree for taking these free online courses, but you’ll get largely the same knowledge from them and you'll save roughly a quarter of a million dollars.
## Departmental Requirements
### [6.0001 Introduction to Computer Science and Programming in Python](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-0001-introduction-to-computer-science-and-programming-in-python-fall-2016/)
This course aims to provide students with an understanding of the role computation can play in solving problems and to help students, regardless of their major, feel justifiably confident of their ability to write small programs that allow them to accomplish useful goals. The class uses the Python 3.5 programming language.
### [6.042J Mathematics for Computer Science](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-042j-mathematics-for-computer-science-spring-2015/)
This subject offers an interactive introduction to discrete mathematics oriented toward computer science and engineering. The subject coverage divides roughly into thirds:
1. Fundamental concepts of mathematics: Definitions, proofs, sets, functions, relations.
2. Discrete structures: graphs, state machines, modular arithmetic, counting.
3. Discrete probability theory.
On completion of 6.042J, students will be able to explain and apply the basic methods of discrete (noncontinuous) mathematics in computer science. They will be able to use these methods in subsequent courses in the design and analysis of algorithms, computability theory, software engineering, and computer systems.
### [15.347 Doctoral Seminar in Research Methods I](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-347-doctoral-seminar-in-research-methods-i-fall-2004/)
This course is designed to lay the foundations of good empirical research in the social sciences. It does not deal with specific techniques per se, but rather with the assumptions and the logic underlying social research. Students become acquainted with a variety of approaches to research design, and are helped to develop their own research projects and to evaluate the products of empirical research.
### [6.01 Introduction to Electrical Engineering and Computer Science I](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-01sc-introduction-to-electrical-engineering-and-computer-science-i-spring-2011/)
This course provides an integrated introduction to electrical engineering and computer science, taught using substantial laboratory experiments with mobile robots. The primary goal is to learn to appreciate and use the fundamental design principles of modularity and abstraction in a variety of contexts from electrical engineering and computer science. The second goal is to show that making mathematical models of real systems can help in the design and analysis of those systems. Complementary goals include the teaching exciting and important basic material from electrical engineering and computer science, including modern software engineering, linear systems analysis, electronic circuits, and decision-making.
